So now did we have an idea of what React Native is.
We can get started with React Native and I'd say let's get started by building our first little react
native app or by getting our first three act native app up and running.
So we want to create a new react native app and as it turns out we actually got two options for that
if you search for React Native you'll find your official page and all that visual page if you click
on get started you actually have q options here.
You have the expo seal a quick start and you react native seal a quick start.
Now what's the difference and which approach should you use and why and what will we use in this course
so we can use the expo Seelye the expo tool for generating and managing our ReACT native app or we use
to react native Seelye.
Now if you first have that choice you would probably go for do you react native Seelye because you want
to build the react native app after all right.
Well let's have a look at what Expo is.
It's a third party service which is completely free to use.
You don't need to sign up to get started and you don't have to pay to build an app which you can publish
to the App Store.
So it's really free to use what Expo gives you is kind of a managed app development workflow.
It takes a lot of complexity away from you because building react native apps can be very complex especially
when it comes to integrating certain native the wise features like accessing the camera and expo simply
gives you a lot of convenience there.
It makes development of risk native apps a breeze and so much easier.
The downside is that you're limited to the expo ecosystem because expo in the end is like a rapper you
could say around your app a thin extra layer between your app and the native raw react native experience
and you still get a native app and you end and you still use React Native under the hood that's all
happening but Expo abstracts away some of the complexity which also means it of course removes some
of the fine grained control you would normally have if you build a raw react native app because if we
have a look at that our workflow the risk native CLIA that's in yet managed by any react native Timor
parts of the react Native community.
And there you have a bare bone development setup which means you get a native app you need to install
Android Studio you need to install X code to built that app and you need to configure and manage a lot
on your own.
As soon as you start adding certain native the wise features like let's say as soon as you want to use
the device camera you will have to bring in third party packages where the set up process can be quite
complex and therefore this can be more cumbersome.
You have pretty much no convenience or utility features to tap into but of course the advantage would
be that you have full control you can control every tiny piece you can easily write your own native
Android in Iowa's code and connect this to your javascript code.
That's not really possible with expo.
So if you are a super advanced developer and you already know you'll be building a very complex app
where you need to do a lot of manual work arounds a lot of fine grained configuration then you definitely
want the full barebones experience on the right.
If you were getting started or if you're building a normal app then the Expos you lie will very likely
give you everything you need.
It gives you wrappers for the most common native device features you need like using the camera like
using maps.
That's all made super simple.
And if you ever get to a point where you find out oh I need more control then you can always also switch
from the actual workflow to the native workflow.
You can eject and then you have the full flexibility therefore nothing speaks against getting started
with Expo you can always switch to the average experience if you need to and we'll use expo in this
course because it's simpler because it gives you everything you need for most apps because it's so much
more convenient to work with and because you can always switch.
Now later down in the course I will also give you an introduction to the more bare bone workflow and
what that would mean for you but for the majority of the course will work with Expo behind the scenes
does Expo to work such that you have your native device or your simulator so your iPhone or your Android
phone and you have your app your react native app.
We will be writing.
So your javascript code where you write your react native app now on your native device or on the simulator
you will install extra app from the App Store the expo client app and we'll do that together in the
next lecture.
Now your app can then be loaded into the client app which is this extra wrapper to see it there to run
it there to test it there.
And that's of course great for development.
You can also publish your app as Expo app so that other people who have the expo client installed can
easily run your app.
They don't even need to install it from the Google Play store or the Apple App Store.
But of course typically you want to build an app which you can publish to these app stores and no worries
that's possible with Expo 2.
That extra client app which you have which wraps your app is great for development because it speeds
up the entire development workflow.
But if you want a standalone app so app that is not relying on that Expo client which most of your potential
users probably won't have installed well then Expo also allows you to build and publish standalone apps.
So apps that do not rely on the Expo client being installed so therefore with Expo you can build normally
apps which are distributed to the normal app stores standalone where your users don't need any special
app installed but you have that extra convenience during development which is great.
And as I mentioned before if you would need to you can always switch or eject as it's called to the
non Expo development flow as well.